Assignment Solutions


1.Why do we need static keywords in Java Programming?
Ans: The static keyword in Java is used to indicate that a member belongs to a class rather than an instance of a class. This means that the member can be accessed without having to create an instance of the class.


-In general, tactic is used to create class-level member that are£independent of any specific
instance of a cla and can be accessed without creating an instance of the class.


-In Java, tactic is a keyword that is used for memory management mainly. Static mean single
copy storage for variable or method.


2.What is class loading and how does the Java program actually executes?
Ans:Cla Loading
In Java, classloading in the process of loading class file into the JVM (Java Virtual machine) at
runtime. It is responsible for loading class from various source, such as the file system, network,
and database, and making them available to the JVM for execution. The class loading process in Java is divided into three phases: loading, linking, and initialization.


3. Can we mark a local variable as static?
Ans: No, we cannot mark a local variable with a static keyword.


4.Why is a static method also called a class method?
Ans: A static method is also called a class method because it ties to a class rather than an individual instance of a cla. Therefore, we do not need to create an object of the class to call and execute a static method.


5. Why is the static block executed before the main method in java?
Ans :When the dot class file is  loaded into memory, a static block i£executed. After executing the static block, JVM calls the main method to start execution. Therefore, the static block is executed before the main method.


6. What is the use of the static keyword Explain with an example?
Ans : The static keyword in Java is used to indicate that a member belongs to a class rather than an instance of a class. This means that the member can be accessed without having to create an instance of the class.


public class Counter {
private static int count = 0;
public Counter() {
count++;
}
public static int getCount() {
return count;
}
}


7. Difference between static and instance variables.
Ans: 
Static variables
	Instance variable
	1.Shared by all instances of the class.


2.Stored in the class memory area.


3.Can be accessed directly using the class name.


4.Only one copy exists regardless of the number of instances of the class.
	-Each instance has its own copy.


-Stored in heap memory for each object.


-Can only be accessed through a class instance.


-Each object will have its own copy of the instance variable.
	

8.Difference between static and non-static members of a class.
Ans: Static:
-These variables are called “class variables”.
- These variables will get memory in the method area.
 -If the value does not change from object to object then we need to use static variables.
- Inside a static area we can access static variables only.
- Static variables are created using static keywords.


Non-static: 
  -These variables are called “instance variables”.
 - These variables will get memory in the heap area.
- If the value changes from object to object then we need to use“non-static” variables.